---
published: false
layout: post
title: Virtual Private Networks
---

VPNs, or Virtual Private Networks are a common way to provide an extra layer of security when accessing the open internet. They are regularly used by individuals to anonymize their connection to the internet. For example, if you subscribe to a VPN service, or a managed VPN,  your internet traffic will be encrypted to the services servers before it accesses the open internet. You create an encrypted tunnel directly between the VPN service and your connected device. This lets you hide your device's actual location. If the VPN service has servers in multiple regions, you can change the region your VPN connects to. The side benefit is that this allows you to access content from online streaming companies that you wouldn't be able to in the region you live in, as the streaming service thinks your device is in that new region. You can also set up filtering in the VPN so harmful packets can be removed before ever getting back to your private network. 

Organizations will use VPNs when they need a direct but remote connection between networks. If you have a remote worker who needs access to sensitive material, the organization can utilize a VPN to keep that info safe. Similarly, if you have two networks that need to share sensitive information, you can use a vpn to create a logical connection between the two, so both physical networks think they are part of one private network. A VPN is also how you can connect a physical network to a cloud network securely. 

VPNs prove to be one of the more important protocols when we start talking about cloud security and virtualization. A commercial Cloud Service Provider will have many different databases in many different geographical regions, all full of tons of physical hardware. In order to use only the hardware that the customer needs, it needs to be divided up logically. In much the same way as putting multiple drives onto one hard drive, you can segment physical hardware logically through virtualization. Many different accounts are sharing physical hardware when they utilize the cloud. VPNs allow us to create smaller private networks within the larger cloud networks and make sure that our information remains secure.  